IAM - Global Service

IAM Credentials report lists all your account's users and the status of their various credentials. The other IAM Security Tool is IAM Access Advisor. It shows the service permissions granted to a user and when those services were last accessed.
You only want to use the root account to create your first IAM user, and for a few account and service management tasks. For every day and administration tasks, use an IAM user with permissions.
An IAM policy is an entity that, when attached to an identity or resource, defines their permissions.


S3 Encryption 
Server-side encryption (default)
1. upload to s3
2. encrypt

Client-side encryption
1. encrypt
2. upload to s3

AWS Snow family 
highly-security, portable devices to collect and process data at the edge, and migrate data into and out of AWS
Data migration: Snowcone, Snowball Edge, Snowmobile 
Edge computiong: Snowcone, Snowball Edge

AWS Snow Family: offline devices to perform data migrations 
If it takes more than a week to transfer over the network, use Snowball devices!

Amazon Glacier Deep Archive is the most cost-effective option if you want to archive data and do not have a retrieval time requirement. You can retrieve data in 12 or 48 hours.
AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that gives you on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage.
AWS Snowcone is a small, portable, rugged, and secure edge computing and data transfer device. It provides up to 8 TB of usable storage.
Snowball Edge Storage Optimized devices are well suited for large-scale data migrations and recurring transfer workflows, as well as local computing with higher capacity needs.

DB 
DynamoDB 
DynamoDB is a fast and flexible non-relational database service for any scale. It can scale with no downtime, it can process millions of requests per second, and is fast and consistent in performance.

Redshift
Based on Postgresql but not for OLTP
OLAP - online analytical processing 
Columnar storage of data (instead of row based)
BI tools such as Tableau integrate with it

Amazon EMR
Elastic MapReduce
EMR helps creating Hadoop clusters (Big Data) to analyze and process vast amount of data
Supports Apache Spark, HBase, Presto, Flink
Use cases: data processing, machime learning, web indexing, big data

Amazon Athena
Serverless quesry service to perform analytics against S3
Use standart SQL language
Use cases: BI, analytics, reporting
Exam TIP: amalyze data in S3 using serverless SQL -- use Athena

Amazon QuickSight
Serverless machine learning-powered BI service create interactive Dashboard
Use cases: Business analytics, building vizualizations, perform ad-hoc analytics, get business insight using data
Integrated with RDS, Aurora, Athena, Redshift, S3

DocumentDB
DocumentDB is the same for MongoDB (which is NO Sql DB)
MongoDB is  used to store. query anf index JSON data

Amazon Neptune
Fully managed graph db
A popular Graph dataset would be a social network
Greate for knowledge graph (Wikipedia), fraud detection, recommendation engines, social networking

Amazon QLDB
QLDB - stands for "Quantum Ledger Database"
A ledger is a book recording financial transactions
Used to review history of all changes made to your application data over time
Immutable system: no entry can be removed or modified, cryptographically verifiable
Difference with Amazon Managed Blockchain: no decentralization component, in accordance with financial regulation rules

Amazon Managed Blockchain
Blockchain makes it possible to build applications where multiple parties can execute transactions without the need for a trusted, central authority.
Is managed service to:
- join public blockchain network 
-create your own scalable private network

AWS Glue
Managed extract, transform, and load (ETL) service
Useful to prepare and transform data for analytics
Fully serverless service 
The AWS Glue Data Catalog is a central repository to store structural and operational metadata for all your data assets.

DMS - Database migration service 
Quickly and securely migrate databases to AWS, resilient, self healing 
The source database remains available during the migration

Amazon DynamoDB Accelerator (DAX)
Is a fully managed, highly available, in-memory cache for Amazon DynamoDB that delivers up to a 10 times performance improvement—from milliseconds to microseconds—even at millions of requests per second.

Summary:
Relational db - OLTP: RDS & Aurora (SQL)
Differences between Multi-AZ, Read Replicas, Multi-Region 
In-Memory Database: ElasticCache
Key/Value db: DynamoDB (serverless) & DAX (cache for DynamoDB)
Warehouse - OLAP: Redshift (SQL)
Hadoop Cluster: EMR 
Athena: query data on Amazon S3 (serverless & SQL)
QuickSight: dashboards on your data (serverless)
DocumentDB: "Aurora for MongoDB" (JSON - NoSQL database)
AmazonQLDB: Financial Transactions Ledger (immutable journal, cryptoghraphically verifiable)
Amazon Managed Blockchain: managed Hyperledger Fabric & Euthereum Blockchains
Glue: Managed ETL (Extract Transform Load) and Data Catalog service
Database Migration: DMS
NeptuneL grapch database


ECS = Elastic Container Service
Launch Docker containers on AWS
AWS takes care of starting/stopping containers

Fargate 
Launch Docker containers on AWS
You do not provision the infreastracture (no EC2 istances to manage) - simpler!
AWS just runs containers for you based on the CPU/RAM you need

ECR = Elastic Container Registry 
Private Docker Registry on AWS
This is where you store your Docker images so they can be run by ECS or Fargate

Serverless is a new paradigm in which the deveopers don;t have to manage servers anymore
They just deploy code 
Serverless == FaaS (Function as a Service)
Serverless does not mean there are no servers...
It means you just don't manage/provision/see them

AWS Lambda
Virtual functions - no servers to manage!
Limited by time - short executions 
Run on-demand 
Scaling is automated 

Serverless CRON Job
ClowdWatch Events EventBridge -> AWS Lambda Function Perform a task

AWS Lambda pricing is based on calls and duration.

Batch vs Lambda
Lambda:
- Time limit 
- Limited runtimes
- Limited temprora disk space

Batch:
- No time limit 
- Any runtime as long as it's packaged as a Dockerimage
- Rely on EBS / instance store for disk space
- Relies on EC2 (can be managed by AWS)

Amazon Lightsail 
- Virtual servers, storage, databases, and networking 
- Low & predictable pricing 
- Can setup notifications and monitoring of your Lightsail resources 
- Has high availability but no auto-scaling, limited AWS integrations
Use cases:
- simple web applications
- websites 
- dev/test envs

Summary:
Docker: container technology to run applications
ECS: run Docker containers on EC2 instances 
Fargate:
- run docker containers without provisioning the infrastracture 
- serverless offering (no EC2 instances)
ECR: private docker images repository 
Batch: run batch jobs on AWS across managed EC2 instances 
Lghtsail: predictable & low pricing for simple application & DB stacks

Lambda Summary:
- lambda is serverless, functin as a Service, seamless scaling, reactive
- labbda billing: 
1. by the time x by the RAM provisioned
2. by the number of invocations
- language support
- Invocation time: u[ to 15 minutes
- API GatewayL expose Lambda functions as HTTP API

AWS Elastic Beanstalk 
- Elastic Beanstalk is a developer cetric view of deploying an application on AWS
- It uses all the component's: EC2, ASG, ELB, RDC, etc...
- But it's all in one view that's easy to make sense of!
- We still full control over the configuration 

Beanstalk = Platform as a Service (PaaS)


AWS CodePipeline 
CodeCommit -> CodeBuild -> CodeDeploy -> Elastic Beanstalk
Basis for CICD 

"Orchestration of pipeline" == AWS CodePipeline

AWS CodeArtifact
- Software packages depend on each other to be built, and new ones are created 
- Storing and retrieving these dependencies is called artifact management

AWS CodeStar 
- Unified UI to easily manage software development activities in one place 
- "Quick way" to get ctarted to  correctly set-up CodeCommit, CodePipeline, ..ect

AWS Cloud9
- AWS Cloud9 is a cloud IDE for writting, running and debugging code
- AWS Cloud9 also allows for code collaboration in real-time (pair programming)






